# GameOfLife

In case of executing by hand the generator of patterns or the simulator, the environment variable OMP_NUM_THREADS must be set with a number greater than zero. This is necessary because these programs read that variable to know the threads and divide the work properly between them. To set this variable run in the folder /Generator/ or /Simulator/ the following command:
    export OMP_NUM_THREADS=number      where number is the number of threads, for example 4.
    
In case of using the scripts explained below, the previous configuration is not necessary because it is done automatically by the scripts.

The directories are:

+ /Generator/:
    - /images/: contains plots comparing parallel generator vs sequential generator.
    - /patterns/: contains patters generated by the generators.
    - /reports/: contains the execution report of both generators.
    - /results/: stores the results of executing the parallel generator with [1,4] threads and the sequential. This can also include the speedup.
    - generator_parallel.cpp: code implementing OpenMP parallelization.
    - generator_sequential.cpp.
    - makefile.
    - plot.gnuplot: to run this, execute the following --> gnuplot plot.gnuplot
        * creates the plots of the data found in /results/.
    - results.sh: 
        * Executes the parallel generator changing automatically the number of threads and the amount of data used.        
        * Creates the files /results/parallel.n.thread.time, where n is the number of threads used for that execution.
        * Executes the sequential generator changing automatically the amount of data used and creates the file /results/sequential.time
+ /Simulator/:
    - /images/: contains plots comparing parallel simulator vs sequential simulator.    
    - /reports/: contains the execution report of both simulators.
    - /results/: stores the results of executing the parallel simulator with [1,4] threads and the sequential. This can also include the speedup.
    - simulator_parallel.cpp: code implementing OpenMP parallelization.
    - simulator_sequential.cpp.
    - makefile.
    - plot.gnuplot: to run this, execute the following --> gnuplot plot.gnuplot
        * creates the plots of the data found in /results/.
    - results.sh: 
        * Executes the parallel simulator changing automatically the number of threads and the amount of data used.
        * Creates the files /results/parallel.n.thread.time, where n is the number of threads used for that execution.
        * Executes the sequential simulator changing automatically the amount of data used and creates the file /results/sequential.time

+ calculate_speedup.cpp: using the data created by the scripts results_parallel.sh and results_sequential.sh in /Generator/results/ or /Simulator/results/,
    calculates the speedup obtained with the parallelization and create the file speedup.n.thread in one of those folders. n is the number of threads.

+ makefile: used to compile calculate_speedup.cpp
